[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now it's exercise time.
Normally, at how we handle
exercises is we would
go to the pairing machines and do that.
But since we can't do that,
we're going to have to mix it up.
If you're here together,
I recommend pairing.
I think it's really helpful and
it makes things fun.
You learn how to communicate your code,
and actually,
you can clarify in your mind your
understanding to take these intuitive
understandings of how JavaScript works and
apply these rules to them.
And really make that solid,
so if you can, pair up.
And I'm just gonna walk you through
a little bit how to get started with
the exercises.
Again, if you just type in the bit.ly, so
the bit.ly is bit.ly/js102-exercises.
And you can also find that
on the first slide and
I think Mark sent out an email prior.
And so that will bring you to this,
this get hub repo.
And what you can do then is you can
download, hit this button here,
download zip, oops, so
you download the zip here.
Let's see.
I'll just save it for now.
And so what we're gonna be doing
today is we're gonna be doing this
eFarmony Project.
So eFarmony is this hot new dating app for
animals.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Looking for funding,
so if there's any VC's out there,
it's a great idea, and
I have hundreds of engineers across
the world working on it right now.
Jokes aside, we're going to clone down
the repo and we're going to start here.
In the before you get started section,
it's gonna tell you how to navigate
the files and where to go.
We just downloaded the zip, and
now we're gonna explore the file.
So if we show this in our finder,
we had to unzip it, of course.
And then we're gonna go in here.
And so
the first thing we can do is we're
gonna open our index.html file.
And we'll notice that this page
is intentionally left blank.
And basically what this is for,
this html page is for, is just to be able
to play in your console with the code
that you write and your script.js file.
So if we go here to our script.js file and
were gonna open it with our text editor,
whatever you choose.
And we'll see, and comments here, were
gonna use this file, its actually not just
part one, it's gonna be, we're just
gonna do all of our code in this file.
And so if we just console.log,
animal here.
You're gonna be typing animal a lot,
and farm a lot today.
And we refresh here,
we see we have a console.log animal.
So that's one way, that's one work flow.
Again, you type in the text editor.
You save it.
Saving is important.
And then you refresh the page, and
that's when you can access
the changes in your code.
For example,
we can say var myAnimal = {} and
we can give it some properties.
Maybe it's a sheep so it says baaahhhh.
Again, I've saved it so for me Cmd+S is
save and then I refresh the page, Cmd+R.
And then I can type in myAnimal.
So notice myAnimal I can then
access in my developer tools.
So I'm using Chrome, you can also use
Firefox, if that's what you prefer.
And to open your developer tools,
you go to View, Developer,
and then JavaScript Console.
And if you get lost in it,
you can always on this first,
there's a bunch of tabs and
it's easy to get lost in the tabs.
You can always just click here and
click back to console.
And so that's the workflow of how
you're going to be doing this project.
If you're online you could try jsbin.
It might be more helpful if you wanna
share your code in the chatroom.
So if you put it in jsbin you would just
need to put your JavaScript here and
then you have your console.
So if you open your JS Bin, this way.
So where you have the JavaScript tab on
one side and the Console on the other, and
then you can do the same thing.
And then you would hit Run and
that would print out to your console.
And so, that's sort of the workflow of
how you're gonna be doing this project.
So, throughout the day,
what we're gonna be doing is we're gonna
be implementing two parts of this app.
We're gonna be making
the data structures and
we're gonna be adding
some functionality to it.
There's no UI,
this is not like a CSS class.
It's only gonna be two
parts of your application.
Again, the data structures and
the functionality, like very crude,
basic functionality.
And if you think about it,
apps are really just three parts.
You have your data,
you have your view, like the UI, and
then you have the functionality behind it.
So you're kind of making
two-thirds of an app, anyway.
So even though it might not be flashy,
you still, that's two-thirds done.
And if anyone makes a UI for
it, please send it to me.
That'd be really cool to see that, cool.
So we explored the files.
Some other fun things is, I do give
free tutoring to people who correct.
Whoever sends the most corrections
to either my slides, my
exercises, clarifies any unclear
directions or gives me anything like that.
I do give free tutoring.
For more directions on free
tutoring you can see this tab and
note on free tutoring.
And yeah, and so what we're gonna do
is we're just gonna do the objects one.
You're gonna open that here.
And this is just a readme file, so
you don't have to download it or anything.
You can just go through the projects.
And I'll give you about 15 or
20 minutes or so to go through this.
And I'll just walk around.